docs: minor 51 notes (#49191)
metabase/metabase: docs/questions/query-builder/introduction.md

- [Filtering](#filtering)
- [Summarizing and grouping by](#summarizing-and-grouping-by)

You can also add steps for [joining data](#joining-data), [custom columns](#creating-custom-columns), and [sorting results](#sorting-results).

To the right of each completed step is a **Preview** button (looks like a Play button - a triangle pointing to the right) that shows you the first 10 rows of the results of your question up to that step.

![Previewing results](../images/preview-table.png)

## Picking data

The data section is where you select the data you want to work with. Here you'll pick a [model](../../data-modeling/models.md), a [metric](../../data-modeling/metrics.md), a table from a database, or a saved question.

![data picker](../images/data-picker.png)

> You can see the data source in a new browser tab by ⌘/Ctrl+Clicking on its name in the query builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the data source in a new browser tab by Cmd/Ctrl+Clicking on the data source's name in the query builder.
```
We use Cmd/Ctrl elsewhere.

> You can click on the arrow next to the data source name to select which columns you want to include in your query. You'll also be able [hide columns ](#adding-or-removing-columns-in-a-table) from the table view once you visualize your results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To choose which columns to include in your query, click on the arrow next to the data source . You'll also be able [hide columns ](#adding-or-removing-columns-in-a-table) from the table view once you visualize your results.
```

- **Date columns** give you a lot of options to filter by specific date ranges, relative date ranges, and more.
- **Structured data columns**, typically JSON or XML, can only be filtered by "Is empty" or "Not empty". Some databases, however, support [JSON unfolding](../../data-modeling/json-unfolding.md), which allows you to split up JSON data into separate columns, which you can then filter on.

### Filter multiple columns

When viewing a table or chart, clicking on the **Filter** will bring up the filter modal.

![Bulk filter modal](../images/bulk-filter-modal.png)

> Here you can add multiple filters to your question in one go (which can save you a lot of loading time). Filter options will differ depending on the [field type](../../data-modeling/field-types.md). Any tables linked by foreign keys will be displayed in the left tab of the modal. You can also filter your summaries.

Author: New in 51 that you can filter any summary level in bulk modal

![Multiple groupings](../images/summarize-timeseries-breakout.png)

Some grouping columns will give you the option of choosing how big or small to make the groupings:

> - For datetime columns, you can click on the words `by month` to change the grouping to day, week, hour, quarter, year, etc. You'll also be able to add multiple breakouts by the same datetime column with different time granularities (for example, group by week and day of the week).
> 
> - For numeric columns like age, Metabase will automatically "bin" the results, so you'll see your metric grouped in age brackets, like 0–10, 11–20, 21–30, etc. Just like with dates, you can click on the current binning option to change it to a specific number of bins. It's not currently possible to choose your own ranges for bins, though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For datetime columns, you can click on the words `by month` to change the grouping to day, week, hour, quarter, year, etc. You'll also be able to add multiple breakouts by the same datetime column with different time granularities (for example, group by week and day of the week).
- For numeric columns like age, Metabase will automatically "bin" the results, so you'll see your metric grouped in age brackets, like 0–10, 11–20, 21–30, etc. Just like with dates, you can click on the current binning option to change it to a specific number of bins. Currently, you can't choose your own ranges for bins.
```

  ![Multiple groupings](../images/histogram-bins.png)

>   If you select a fixed number of bins, Metabase will break the range of the data into that number of equal size intervals. Some intervals might end up having no data, and Metabase will not display them.

Author: Not a new 51 thing, but might as well add it
